1. All of the class took part in a story competition. Emma really wanted to win. Whilst she was away from school, the results of the competition were announced: Alice was the winner. The next day, Alice saw Emma and said "I'm sorry about your story." "What do you mean?" said Emma. "Oh nothing," said Alice. 

Who won the story competition? 
Did Alice realize that Emma hadn't heard the results of the 

2. Robert had just started at a new school. He said to his new friend, Andrew, "My Mom is a cafeteria lady at this school." Then Claire came over and said, "I hate cafeteria ladies. They're horrible." "Do you want to come and play a game?" Andrew asked Claire. "No" she replied "I'm not feeling very well."

 What job does Robert's Mom do? 
Did Clare know that Robert's Mom was a cafeteria lady?

3. Mike was in one of the cubicles in the bathroom at school. Joe and Peter were at the sinks nearby. Joe said "You know that new boy in the class, his name is Mike. Doesn't he look really weird!" Mike then came out of the cubicles. Peter said "Oh hello Mike, are you going to play soccer now?". 

Where were Joe and Peter when they were talking?
Did Joe Know that Mike was in the cubicles ?

4. Kim helped her Mom make an apple pie for her uncle when he came to visit. She carried it out of the kitchen. "I made it just for you," said Kim. "Mmm", replied Uncle Tom, "That looks lovely. I love pies, except for apple, of course!" 

What kind of pie had Kim made ?
Did Uncle Tom know that the pie was an apple pie ?

5. James bought Richard a toy airplane for his birthday. A few months later, they were playing with it, and James accidentally dropped it. "Don't worry" said Richard, "I never liked it anyway. Someone gave it to me for my birthday."

What did James give Richard for his birthday?
Did Richard remember James had given him the toy airplane for his birthday?

6. Sally has short blonde hair. She was at her Aunt Carol's house. The doorbell rang. It was Mary, a neighbor. Mary said "Hello," then looked at Sally and said "Oh, I don't think I've met this little boy. What's your name?" Aunt Carol said "Who'd like a cup of tea?." 

Whose house was Sally at?
Did Mary know that Sally was a little girl?

7. Mrs. West, the teacher, had something to tell her class, "One of the boys in our class, Simon, is very seriously ill" she said. The class were all very sad and were sitting quietly when a little girl, Becky, arrived late. "Have you heard my new joke about sick people?" she asked. The teacher said to her "Sit down and get on with your work."

What did the teacher tell the class at the beginning of the story?
Did Becky know Simon was sick?

8. Tim was in a restaurant. He spilt his coffee on the floor by accident. Jack was another person in the restaurant, standing by the cash desk waiting to pay. Tim went up to Jack and said "I'm terribly sorry, but I've spilt my coffee. Would you be able to mop it up?".

Where did the story take place?
Did Tim know Jack was a customer?

9. Jill had just moved into a new house. She went shopping with her Mom and bought some new curtains. When Jill had just put them up, her best friend Lisa came round and said, "Oh, those curtains are horrible, I hope you're going to get some new ones." Jill asked, "Do you like the rest of my bedroom?."

What had Jill just bought?
Did Lisa know the curtains were new?

10. Helen's mom was having a surprise party for Helen's birthday. She invited Nicky and said, "Don't tell anyone, especially Helen!" The day before the party Nicky and Helen were playing together and Nicky ripped her new dress. "Oh!" said Nicky, "I was going to wear this to your party." "What party?" said Helen. "Come on," said Nicky "Let's go and see if my mom can mend the tear."

Who was the surprise party for?
Did Nicky remember the party was a surprise?

1. All of the class took part in a poetry competition. Jane really wanted to win. While she was away, the results of the competition were announced: Mary was the winner. The next day, Jane bumped into Mary. Mary said "How are you feeling?". "Fine thanks?" said Jane, "Oh good" said Mary.

Who won the story competition? 
Did Mary know that Jane hadn't heard the results of the competition?

2. David had just started at a new school. He said to his new friend, Mike, "My Mom is a teacher in this school." Then Jeff came over. "I hate school" he told them, "It's so small." "Do you want to come and play a game?" Mike asked Jeff. "No" he replied "I'm not feeling very well."

What job does David's Mom do?
Did Jeff know that David's Mom was a teacher?

3. John was in one of the cubicles in the bathroom at school. Sam and Eddy were at the sinks nearby. Sam said "You know that new boy in the class—you know, his name is John. Doesn't he look cool!" John then came out of the cubicles. Peter said "Oh, hi John. Are you going to play soccer now?"

Where were Sam and Eddy when they were talking?
Did Sam know that John was in the cubicles?

4. Kate helped her Mom make a fruit pie for her neighbor when he came to visit. She carried it out of the kitchen. "I made it just for you," said Kate. "Mmm", replied her neighbor, "That looks lovely—I love pies, especially fruit ones!"

What kind of pie had Kate made?
Did the neighbor know that the pie was a fruit pie?

5. Simon bought Robert a toy car for his birthday. A few months later, they were playing with it, and Simon dropped it. "Don't worry," said Robert, "it was only an accident". 

What did Simon give Robert for his birthday?
Did Simon know Robert had given him the toy car for his birthday?

6. Jill has short brown hair. She was at her Uncle Ted's house. The doorbell rang. It was Mrs. Smith, a neighbor. Mrs. Smith said "Hello," then looked at Jill and said "Oh, I don't think I've met this little girl. What's your name?" Uncle Ted said "Who'd like some tea?". 

Whose house was Jill at?
Did Mrs. Smith know that Jill was a little girl?

7. Mrs. Jones, the teacher, had something to tell her class, "You all know George in our class, well, he is very seriously ill" she said. The class were all very sad and were sitting quietly when a little girl, Amy, arrived late. "I've just been to the dentist" she said. The teacher said to her "Sit down and get on with your work."

What did the teacher tell the class at the beginning of the story?
Did Amy know George was sick?

8. Alan and Ed were having a drink in a restaurant. Alan spilt his coke on the floor by accident. He said to Edward "Oh dear, haven't I been clumsy—I've spilt my coke!" Edward said "I'll order another one."

Where did the story take place?
Did Alan know Ed was a customer?

9. Michelle had just moved into a new house. Michelle went shopping with her Mom and bought a new rug for her bedroom. When Michelle had just put it down, her best friend, Samantha, came round and said, "Oh, your new rug is just like my new one." Michelle asked, "Do you like the house?"

What had Michelle just bought?
Did Samantha know the rug was new?

10. Annette's mom was having a surprise party for Annette's birthday. She invited Bridget and said to her. "Don't tell anyone, especially not Annette!" The day before the party Annette and Bridget were playing together and Annette ripped her new shirt. "Oh!" said Annette, "My mother will be cross." "Don't worry" said Bridget. "Let's go and see if my mom can mend the tear."

Who was the surprise party for?
Did Annette know there was a surprise party planned?competition?